>> Scott Moss: Let's actually get this
working by implementing those functions.
So I need to go into,
Where that's happening.
So in this case it's DAL.
So what does dal stand for?
It stands for data access layer.
You can think about it as
utility functions that get used
on the server side to fetch data for
server components.
Not to be confused with server
functions or server actions.
These are just regular functions
that happen before a route renders.
They don't cross the network barrier,
they aren't on the client,
they aren't responding to
interactions on the client.
They happen before the browser
even knows what's going on.
They're the first thing that gets executed
when someone goes to a route that is
a server component.
So that's the difference.
They have access to the same
thing a server action does.
They have access to the request because
they're happening on a request.
But they are not server actions.
Server actions are API routes that respond
to some interaction on the client.
There's no official name for
what I'm describing to you right here, but
these functions that just run on
React Server Components are just functions
that run before the component
renders on the server.
They're not responding to a button
click or form submission.
I did a request to this route,
before that route loads,
run this function on the server.
That's what these functions are.
They're mostly just used for getting data.
You almost wouldn't do anything mutative
here, maybe outside of analytics, I guess.
I don't know if you did that but
this is mostly just for fetching data for
the page that the person is
trying to see dynamically.
That's it, so don't confuse the two.
If you try to use a server action
in the place of one of these,
you could have potential bugs,
errors, things like that.
So this is why I like to keep the file
separated, because in those server
actions, I put useServer at the top so
everything in there is a server action.
If I did that here,
it would make this a server action.
I don't want this to be a server action.
I just want it to be a regular function
that I can use on the server [LAUGH].
Not a server action that gets executed on
the server, but triggered from a client.
They should come up with a name for these,
but I'm calling them data access layers.
So that's why it's called DAL.
Okay, enough about that, and
I think I go into a lot more
detail in the notes actually about that,
but let's just get to it.
Yeah, so I kinda already talked about
those things, the network boundary.
These functions run on the server,
they don't cross the network boundary.
They're not API routes being triggered
from clients, so that's the difference.
And again, they are bundled separately.
This code will never ever
be bundled on the client,
even though we're importing
them into components.
But remember, the components that we
import them into are server components.
You cannot import these functions
that we're about to make into
a component that has useClient.
It won't work, you'll get an error.
You can only import these functions to
components that don't have useClient.
If you wanna import a function that runs
on a server to a component that does
useClient, then that function
needs to be a server action.
So you have to put useServer at the top,
then you can import it.
I don't have useServer at the top of this,
so it's not a server action,
therefore it's just a regular
function that runs on Node.
So I try to import that into the browser
and run it, it's not gonna go well.
And anything that is useClient
is gonna run on the browser.
All righty, so getUserByEmail,
what do we do here?
Pretty simple, it actually doesn't
take an email because like I said,
although it's not a server action,
it has access to the request,
it has access to the cookies.
So we can use this function called
getSession that I made, you can go look at
it, but all this is doing is grabbing
the JSON web token from the cookie.
So you might be asking yourself,
well, where is that being passed in?
Next.js exposes the current request
through its headers package.
So let me show you what that looks like.
Let's go to getSession.
So we go look at getSession, these cookies
right here comes from next/headers.
You can use this whenever you are inside
of a function that has access to
the request.
So this would be a server action,
this would be a server component.
This would be a route handler,
this would be these data access layer
functions that we're making now.
All these have access to the request,
therefore they can use this package.
It's pretty confusing, but at the same
time, that's how it works [LAUGH].
>> Student 1: One question.
>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Student 1: Does Next.js have some
kind of middleware implemented that is
managing all that exposure of
data that come from the request?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, the question was,
does Next.js have some middleware that's
managing the exposure to the request?
Yeah, it's a combination of, it's
inferred by the use of directives, right?
So it all comes down to all of this stuff.
It's either this,
>> Scott Moss: Or this, and
this right here tells Next.js what
the hell is going on, essentially.
So through the use of
inferring those directives,
it knows which environment
something is gonna run in.
And then two, in the case of
directing that towards a route,
that depends on where you put the code.
So, as you'll see,
this function right here is only
gonna have access to a route, because
we're gonna import it into a server
component that is in itself a route.
But if I were to call this function
outside of the case of a server component,
it wouldn't have access to a route.
You can only use those header functions
if you're in the context of a call.
And in this case, I will be calling this,
as you'll see soon,
inside of a React Server Component.
So anything that is being executed in that
context has access to cookies, headers,
whatever.
Because you can think of a React Server
Component essentially as a route handler
that sends back JSX.
It's the same thing,
that's essentially what it is.
So if you think about it from that
perspective, this is just like
an API route handler that sends back JSX,
I can do whatever the hell I want here.
I have access to the requests,
the headers, everything.
So that's why this has access to it.